A drop of Dawn and grease is gone.
gone. >>> IT’S INCREASINGLY OBVIOUS
>>> IT’S INCREASINGLY OBVIOUS IT’S A CHOICE BETWEEN FREEDOM
IT’S A CHOICE BETWEEN FREEDOM AND SOCIALISM.
AND SOCIALISM. UNDER MEDICARE FOR ALL AND A
UNDER MEDICARE FOR ALL AND A GREEN NEW DEAL DEMOCRATS ARE
GREEN NEW DEAL DEMOCRATS ARE EMBRACING THE SAME ECONOMIC
EMBRACING THE SAME ECONOMIC THEORIES THAT STIFF LED THE
THEORIES THAT STIFF LED THE LIBERTYIES OF MILLIONS.
LIBERTYIES OF MILLIONS. >> THEY ARE THE PARTY AND MOVE
>> THEY ARE THE PARTY AND MOVE THE OF TREEFREEDOM AND SOCIALISM
THE OF TREEFREEDOM AND SOCIALISM GOVERNMENT BUT THAT IS JUST
GOVERNMENT BUT THAT IS JUST ABOUT THE DUMBEST MOST
ABOUT THE DUMBEST MOST MISLEADING WAY TO UNDERSTAND
MISLEADING WAY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THE BIG FIGHTS IN AMERICAN
WHAT THE BIG FIGHTS IN AMERICAN POLITICS ARE ACTUALLY ABOUT.
POLITICS ARE ACTUALLY ABOUT. HERE IS AN EXAMPLE.
HERE IS AN EXAMPLE. TAKE THE BRIGHT RED REPUBLICAN
TAKE THE BRIGHT RED REPUBLICAN STATE OF WYOMING, LAND OF
STATE OF WYOMING, LAND OF FREEDOM LOVING LIBERTARIANS THAT
FREEDOM LOVING LIBERTARIANS THAT HATE BIG GOVERNMENT, RIGHT?
HATE BIG GOVERNMENT, RIGHT? THERE IS A LAW THAT WILL STOP
THERE IS A LAW THAT WILL STOP COAL FIRE PLANTS FROM GOING OUT
COAL FIRE PLANTS FROM GOING OUT OF THE BUSINESSES WHEN MARKET
OF THE BUSINESSES WHEN MARKET FORCES DEEM THEM TOO COSTLY AND
FORCES DEEM THEM TOO COSTLY AND EFFICIENT BUT ONE UNIVERSITY OF
EFFICIENT BUT ONE UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING PROFESSOR DESCRIBED A
WYOMING PROFESSOR DESCRIBED A HIDDEN TAX ON WORKERS, THAT IS A
HIDDEN TAX ON WORKERS, THAT IS A REPUBLICAN LAW TO PROPERTY UP
REPUBLICAN LAW TO PROPERTY UP COAL PLANTS WHEN THEY ARE
COAL PLANTS WHEN THEY ARE FAILING BUSINESSES AND TO WHAT?
FAILING BUSINESSES AND TO WHAT? STICK IT TO THE LIBS, SUBSIDIZE
STICK IT TO THE LIBS, SUBSIDIZE A FAILING INDUSTRY ISN’T EXACTLY
A FAILING INDUSTRY ISN’T EXACTLY THE THING REPUBLICANS CALL
THE THING REPUBLICANS CALL SOCIALISM THAT PHONY FREEDOM
SOCIALISM THAT PHONY FREEDOM VERSUS SOCIALISM IS A TOOL THAT
VERSUS SOCIALISM IS A TOOL THAT MEN LIKE DONALD TRUMP AND MIKE
MEN LIKE DONALD TRUMP AND MIKE PENCE AND OTHERS USED TO JUSTIFY
PENCE AND OTHERS USED TO JUSTIFY POLICIES THAT CONTRADICT THEIR
POLICIES THAT CONTRADICT THEIR WORDS, POLICIES THAT HELP THEIR
WORDS, POLICIES THAT HELP THEIR FRIENDS AND HARM THE PEOPLE THEY
FRIENDS AND HARM THE PEOPLE THEY DON’T CARE ABOUT.
DON’T CARE ABOUT. IT’S THE LANGUAGE REPUBLICANS
IT’S THE LANGUAGE REPUBLICANS USE TO FOSSIL FUEL INTERESTS AND
USE TO FOSSIL FUEL INTERESTS AND DELAYING ACTION ON THE DEATHLY
DELAYING ACTION ON THE DEATHLY LOOMING CRISIS OF CLIMATE
LOOMING CRISIS OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
CHANGE. IT’S EXACTLY THE ARGUMENT THEY
IT’S EXACTLY THE ARGUMENT THEY USE AGAINST A GREEN DEAL IT’S
USE AGAINST A GREEN DEAL IT’S HORROR OF HORRORS SOCIALISM.
HORROR OF HORRORS SOCIALISM. >> TALKING ABOUT CONGRESSWOMAN
>> TALKING ABOUT CONGRESSWOMAN ALEXANDRIA COSTIO-CORTEZ BIZARRE
ALEXANDRIA COSTIO-CORTEZ BIZARRE PIECE OF LEGISLATION.
PIECE OF LEGISLATION. >> IT’S THE OLD SOCIALISM.
>> IT’S THE OLD SOCIALISM. >> THIS IS A SOCIALIST AGENDA IF
>> THIS IS A SOCIALIST AGENDA IF THERE EVER WAS ONE.
THERE EVER WAS ONE. >> IT’S LIKE A SOCIALIST
>> IT’S LIKE A SOCIALIST CHRISTMAS MORNING WISH LIST.
CHRISTMAS MORNING WISH LIST. >> THIS IS A REAL SERIOUS THREAT
>> THIS IS A REAL SERIOUS THREAT TO OUR WAY OF LIFE.
TO OUR WAY OF LIFE. >> REMEMBER, PROPPING UP COAL
>> REMEMBER, PROPPING UP COAL FIREPOWER PLANTS WITH STATE
FIREPOWER PLANTS WITH STATE SUBSIDIES AND FORCING THE POWER
SUBSIDIES AND FORCING THE POWER OF THE STATE TO KEEP THEM IN
OF THE STATE TO KEEP THEM IN BUSINESS, THAT’S NOT SOCIALIST,
BUSINESS, THAT’S NOT SOCIALIST, THAT’S FREEDOM.
THAT’S FREEDOM. FOX NEWS MIGHT BE FREAKING OUT
FOX NEWS MIGHT BE FREAKING OUT OVER THE GREEN NEW DEAL BUT
OVER THE GREEN NEW DEAL BUT POLLING SHOWS IT’S POLAR AMONG
POLLING SHOWS IT’S POLAR AMONG THE AMERICAN VOTERS PARTICULARLY
THE AMERICAN VOTERS PARTICULARLY YOUNG PEOPLE THAT HAVE THE MOST
YOUNG PEOPLE THAT HAVE THE MOST TO LOSE.
TO LOSE. HERE TO TALK ABOUT WHAT WE CAN
HERE TO TALK ABOUT WHAT WE CAN STILL DO, DAVID WALLACE WELLS,
STILL DO, DAVID WALLACE WELLS, THE AUTHOR OF AN ABSOLUTE
THE AUTHOR OF AN ABSOLUTE MUST-READ CALLED "UNINHABITABLE
MUST-READ CALLED "UNINHABITABLE EARTH" A RECENT GUEST, WHY IS
EARTH" A RECENT GUEST, WHY IS THIS HAPPENING?
THIS HAPPENING? DAVID, WE HAVE ACCORDING TO THE
DAVID, WE HAVE ACCORDING TO THE REPORT
REPORT REPORT 12 YEARS.
REPORT 12 YEARS. THAT’S A GREEN DEAL.
THAT’S A GREEN DEAL. TAKE AWAY THE POLITICS AND IS
TAKE AWAY THE POLITICS AND IS THAT A TECHNICALLY POSSIBLE
THAT A TECHNICALLY POSSIBLE THING.
THING. CAN WE DO IT WITH THE TECHNOLOGY
CAN WE DO IT WITH THE TECHNOLOGY WE HAVE NOW?
WE HAVE NOW? >> IT’S POSSIBLE BUT AS THE U.N.
>> IT’S POSSIBLE BUT AS THE U.N. SAYS IT WOULD REQUIRE A GLOBAL
SAYS IT WOULD REQUIRE A GLOBAL MOBILIZATION AT THE SCALE OF
MOBILIZATION AT THE SCALE OF WORLD WAR II AGAINST CLIMATE AND
WORLD WAR II AGAINST CLIMATE AND I DON’T THINK WE’RE NEAR THAT
I DON’T THINK WE’RE NEAR THAT MOBILIZATION NOW SO PRACTICALLY
MOBILIZATION NOW SO PRACTICALLY SPEAKING, IT’S GOING TO BE ON
SPEAKING, IT’S GOING TO BE ON OUTSIDE BANK SHOT IF WE GET
OUTSIDE BANK SHOT IF WE GET THERE.
THERE. >> MEANING WE HAVE, WE COULD DO
>> MEANING WE HAVE, WE COULD DO IT IN THAT IT’S TECHNICALLY
IT IN THAT IT’S TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE BUT THE LEVEL OF
FEASIBLE BUT THE LEVEL OF RESOURCES, COMMITMENT THAT WOULD
RESOURCES, COMMITMENT THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE DEVOTED TO IT IS THE
HAVE TO BE DEVOTED TO IT IS THE WORLD WAR II LEVEL.
WORLD WAR II LEVEL. >> WELL, JUST SO MANY OBSTACLES.
>> WELL, JUST SO MANY OBSTACLES. THERE IS THE POLITICAL OBSTACLE
THERE IS THE POLITICAL OBSTACLE AND CULTURAL OBSTACLE AND ALL
AND CULTURAL OBSTACLE AND ALL THE THINGS WE HAVE TO CHANGE
THE THINGS WE HAVE TO CHANGE ABOUT OUR ECONOMIES IN THE U.S.
ABOUT OUR ECONOMIES IN THE U.S. AND THE WORLD.
AND THE WORLD. THE COORDINATION PROBLEM BETWEEN
THE COORDINATION PROBLEM BETWEEN NATIONS.
NATIONS. IN EUROPE AND ASIA AND AFRICA,
IN EUROPE AND ASIA AND AFRICA, THE CHINA AND U.S. WOULD HAVE TO
THE CHINA AND U.S. WOULD HAVE TO GET ON THE SAME PAGE ABOUT
GET ON THE SAME PAGE ABOUT CARBON, WHICH WE’RE VERY FAR
CARBON, WHICH WE’RE VERY FAR FROM DOING BUT TECHNICALLY,
FROM DOING BUT TECHNICALLY, YEAH, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT IF THE
YEAH, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT IF THE WORLD HAD A GLOBAL DICTATOR AND
WORLD HAD A GLOBAL DICTATOR AND THAT GLOBAL DICTATOR WAS
THAT GLOBAL DICTATOR WAS SINGULARLY FOCUSED BY 2030, IT’S
SINGULARLY FOCUSED BY 2030, IT’S TECHNICALLY POSSIBLE BUT I
TECHNICALLY POSSIBLE BUT I SHOULD SAY THAT THE U.N. HAS RUN
SHOULD SAY THAT THE U.N. HAS RUN ALL OF THESE SCENARIOS HOW TO
ALL OF THESE SCENARIOS HOW TO KEEP US BELOW TWO DEGREES OF
KEEP US BELOW TWO DEGREES OF WARMING WHICH IS CONSIDERED THE
WARMING WHICH IS CONSIDERED THE THRESHOLD OF KACATASTROPHE AND
THRESHOLD OF KACATASTROPHE AND ALMOST NONE OF THOSE SCENARIOS
ALMOST NONE OF THOSE SCENARIOS WOULD ALLOW US TO GET UNDER TWO
WOULD ALLOW US TO GET UNDER TWO DEGREES WITHOUT NEGATIVE
DEGREES WITHOUT NEGATIVE EMISSIONS, WHICH MEANS MAGICAL
EMISSIONS, WHICH MEANS MAGICAL TECHNOLOGY THAT SUCKS CARBON OUT
TECHNOLOGY THAT SUCKS CARBON OUT OF THE ATMOSPHERE.
OF THE ATMOSPHERE. THAT TECHNOLOGY IS REALLY BEEN
THAT TECHNOLOGY IS REALLY BEEN ABLE TESTED IN LABS AND WE DON’T
ABLE TESTED IN LABS AND WE DON’T KNOW IF IT WOULD WORK AT SCALE
KNOW IF IT WOULD WORK AT SCALE OR HOW EXPENSIVE IT WOULD BE.
OR HOW EXPENSIVE IT WOULD BE. WE CAN’T STAY BELOW THE
WE CAN’T STAY BELOW THE THRESHOLD WITHOUT SIGNIFICANT
THRESHOLD WITHOUT SIGNIFICANT DEPLOYMENT OF THE TECHNOLOGIES.
DEPLOYMENT OF THE TECHNOLOGIES. >> ONE OF THE THINGS WE’RE
>> ONE OF THE THINGS WE’RE LEARNING FROM YOUR BOOK AND OUR
LEARNING FROM YOUR BOOK AND OUR CONVERSATION, TWO DEGREES IS
CONVERSATION, TWO DEGREES IS THIS THRESHOLD FOR A LONG TIME
THIS THRESHOLD FOR A LONG TIME BUT ONE THING YOU MAKE CLEAR IS
BUT ONE THING YOU MAKE CLEAR IS YOU THINK ABOUT 20-YEAR-OLDS WHO
YOU THINK ABOUT 20-YEAR-OLDS WHO WILL BE VOTING AND WHO WILL BE
WILL BE VOTING AND WHO WILL BE LIVING THE DURATION OF THEIR
LIVING THE DURATION OF THEIR LIVES AND THEY WILL TURN, YOU
LIVES AND THEY WILL TURN, YOU KNOW, 80 IN 2080, RIGHT?
KNOW, 80 IN 2080, RIGHT? THAT THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TWO
THAT THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TWO DEGREES AND THREE DEGREES, THREE
DEGREES AND THREE DEGREES, THREE DEGREES AND FOUR IS ENORMOUS.
DEGREES AND FOUR IS ENORMOUS. NOT LIKE WE’LL MISS OR GET THE
NOT LIKE WE’LL MISS OR GET THE TWO-DEGREE BENCHMARK.
TWO-DEGREE BENCHMARK. IT WILL MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE
IT WILL MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE WHAT LIFE LOOKS LIKE HERE ON
WHAT LIFE LOOKS LIKE HERE ON EARTH AND THE U.S.
EARTH AND THE U.S. >> YOU THINK OF THE NUMBERS, TWO
>> YOU THINK OF THE NUMBERS, TWO DEGREES, THREE DEGREES, FOUR,
DEGREES, THREE DEGREES, FOUR, THEY SOUND LIKE SMALL
THEY SOUND LIKE SMALL DIFFERENCES AND IT WILL BE QUITE
DIFFERENCES AND IT WILL BE QUITE CATASTROPHIC AND MEAN MANY OF
CATASTROPHIC AND MEAN MANY OF THE BIGGEST CITIES IN THE MIDDLE
THE BIGGEST CITIES IN THE MIDDLE EAST WOULD BE LETHALLY HOT IN
EAST WOULD BE LETHALLY HOT IN THE SUMMER WHICH WOULD PRODUCE A
THE SUMMER WHICH WOULD PRODUCE A GLOBAL CLIMATE REFUGEE CRISIS IN
GLOBAL CLIMATE REFUGEE CRISIS IN 200, 300 MILLION RANGE.
200, 300 MILLION RANGE. IT’S POSSIBLE IT COULD PRODUCE A
IT’S POSSIBLE IT COULD PRODUCE A BILLION CLIMATE REFUGEES, AS
BILLION CLIMATE REFUGEES, AS MANY PEOPLE LIVE IN NORTH AND
MANY PEOPLE LIVE IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA COMBINED BUT IF WE
SOUTH AMERICA COMBINED BUT IF WE GET ALL THE WAY TO FOUR DEGREES,
GET ALL THE WAY TO FOUR DEGREES, WE’RE TALKING ABOUT A GLOBAL GDP
WE’RE TALKING ABOUT A GLOBAL GDP THAT’S 20 TO 30% SMALLER THAN IT
THAT’S 20 TO 30% SMALLER THAN IT WOULD BE WITHOUT CLIMATE CHANGE.
WOULD BE WITHOUT CLIMATE CHANGE. THAT’S AN IMPACT TWICE AS DEEP
THAT’S AN IMPACT TWICE AS DEEP AS THE GREAT DEPRESSION AND IT
AS THE GREAT DEPRESSION AND IT WOULD BE PERMANENT.
WOULD BE PERMANENT. THERE WOULD BE PARTS OF THE
THERE WOULD BE PARTS OF THE PLANET THAT COULD BE HIT BY SIX
PLANET THAT COULD BE HIT BY SIX CLIMATE DRIVEN NATURAL DISASTERS
CLIMATE DRIVEN NATURAL DISASTERS AT ONCE.
AT ONCE. WE WOULD HAVE TWICE AS MUCH WAR
WE WOULD HAVE TWICE AS MUCH WAR AS WE HAVE TODAY, AND THAT’S
AS WE HAVE TODAY, AND THAT’S BECAUSE CLIEMTDMATE CHANGE IS NO
BECAUSE CLIEMTDMATE CHANGE IS NO ONE ISSUE AMONG MANY BUT ONLY
ONE ISSUE AMONG MANY BUT ONLY AFFECTS PARTS OF THE WORLD BUT
AFFECTS PARTS OF THE WORLD BUT IT’S AN ALL EMNCOMPASSING THREAT
IT’S AN ALL EMNCOMPASSING THREAT AND I THINK THAT’S A REALIZATION
AND I THINK THAT’S A REALIZATION THAT IS ONLY JUST BEGINNING TO
THAT IS ONLY JUST BEGINNING TO SET IN THAT THIS IS NOT
SET IN THAT THIS IS NOT SOMETHING WE CAN ESCAPE OR PLAN
SOMETHING WE CAN ESCAPE OR PLAN AWAY FROM.
AWAY FROM. IT IS SOMETHING THAT WILL AFFECT
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WILL AFFECT ALL OF OUR LIVES GOING FORWARD
ALL OF OUR LIVES GOING FORWARD IF WE MANAGE TO REDUCE CARBON
IF WE MANAGE TO REDUCE CARBON AND AVERT THE WORST-CASE SR.
AND AVERT THE WORST-CASE SR. SCENARIOS.
SCENARIOS. >> THE GREEN NEWTIOUS PROGRAM PU
>> THE GREEN NEWTIOUS PROGRAM PU FORWARD IN AMERICAN POLITICS AND
FORWARD IN AMERICAN POLITICS AND A TALK ABOUT THE COST, RIGHT?
A TALK ABOUT THE COST, RIGHT? ONE OF THE THINGS YOU SAID THE
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU SAID THE COST OF DOING NOTHING WILL BE
COST OF DOING NOTHING WILL BE CATASTROPHIC AND UNPARALLELED IN
CATASTROPHIC AND UNPARALLELED IN CIVILIZATION HISTORY.
CIVILIZATION HISTORY. WE -- THE COST BENEFIT OF
WE -- THE COST BENEFIT OF INVESTING A HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY
INVESTING A HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY RIGHT NOW IS OBVIOUS.
RIGHT NOW IS OBVIOUS. >> YEAH, THE ECONOMIC RESEARCH
>> YEAH, THE ECONOMIC RESEARCH HAS SHIFTED ON THIS.
HAS SHIFTED ON THIS. A FEW YEARS AGO, THE TOTAL
A FEW YEARS AGO, THE TOTAL CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IT MIGHT BE
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IT MIGHT BE GOOD TO TAKE CLIMATE BUT
GOOD TO TAKE CLIMATE BUT EXPENSIVE.
EXPENSIVE. THAT’S A REASON WE HAD SUCH SLOW
THAT’S A REASON WE HAD SUCH SLOW PROGRESS ON CLIMATE EVEN AS WE
PROGRESS ON CLIMATE EVEN AS WE KNEW IT WAS A LOOMING PROBLEM
KNEW IT WAS A LOOMING PROBLEM OVER THE LAST DECADE OR TWO.
OVER THE LAST DECADE OR TWO. BUT THAT CONVENTIONAL WISDOM
BUT THAT CONVENTIONAL WISDOM FLIPPED.
FLIPPED. THERE IT WAS A BIG REPORT 2018
THERE IT WAS A BIG REPORT 2018 THAT FOUND THAT THE GLOBAL
THAT FOUND THAT THE GLOBAL ECONOMY COULD ADD $26 TRILLION
ECONOMY COULD ADD $26 TRILLION OF WEALTH BY 2030 BY RAPIDLY
OF WEALTH BY 2030 BY RAPIDLY DECARBONIZING.
DECARBONIZING. WHEN IT DOES, WE’RE IN FOR A
WHEN IT DOES, WE’RE IN FOR A REAL SEA CHANGE IN PERSPECTIVE
REAL SEA CHANGE IN PERSPECTIVE AND IT DOES FUND MENTALLY CHANGE
AND IT DOES FUND MENTALLY CHANGE THE CALCULOUS THAT EVEN THE
THE CALCULOUS THAT EVEN THE AVERAGE CITIZEN MAKES, WHICH IS
AVERAGE CITIZEN MAKES, WHICH IS TO SAY WE CAN FIND A MORE -- A
TO SAY WE CAN FIND A MORE -- A FUTURE THAT IS BOTH PROSPEROUS
FUTURE THAT IS BOTH PROSPEROUS AND SAFE FROM THE DEEPEST ESTEST
AND SAFE FROM THE DEEPEST ESTEST CLIMATE’S IMPACTS AT ONCE AND WE
CLIMATE’S IMPACTS AT ONCE AND WE DON’T HAVE TO MAKE TRADE OFFS
DON’T HAVE TO MAKE TRADE OFFS BETWEEN JOBS AND CLIMATE ACTION.
BETWEEN JOBS AND CLIMATE ACTION. BOTH OF THE PATHS ARE THE SAME
BOTH OF THE PATHS ARE THE SAME AND WE SHOULD CHOOSE TO TAKE
AND WE SHOULD CHOOSE TO TAKE THEM.
THEM. THE ONLY REASON WE WOULDN’T, WE
THE ONLY REASON WE WOULDN’T, WE WERE TALKING ABOUT DIFFERENCE TO
WERE TALKING ABOUT DIFFERENCE TO INTEREST LIKE THE COAL INDUSTRY.
INTEREST LIKE THE COAL INDUSTRY. >> YEAH, IF WE GET OUR ACT